# Single-Phase-Reconstruction

Software aiming to reconstruct color holograms using a single matrix containing the hologram's phase information, instead of the three normally used. In this project, the hologram reconstruction is done using [JPEG Pleno NRSH](https://gitlab.com/wg1/jpeg-pleno-nrsh) functions.

*NOTE:* This README.md is a work in progress, any suggestions please open an issue tagged as `documentation`.

## Project organization

```
│
├── bin/
│   └── codecs/
├── data/
│   ├── config/
│   ├── input/
│   └── output/
├── res/
│   ├── ctc/
│   └── nrsh/
├── src/
│   ├── holo_config/
│   ├── reconstruction/
│   └── utils/
└── utils/
```

- `bin/` ─ Contains codec binaries and scripts to use them;
- `data/` ─ Input and output folders;
- `res/` ─ External projects location, contains all of the CTC and NRSH source code;
- `src/` ─ Source code.

## User Guide

Before running the run.m script, it's necessary to follow these steps:
1. Download the holograms. The links for the supported holograms are the following (Download will begin automatically):
	1. [Biplane16k](http://ds.erc-interfere.eu/downloads/dataset3/CGH_Biplane16k_rgb.mat) (5.99 GB)
	2. [CGH_Venus](http://ds.erc-interfere.eu/downloads/dataset3/CGH_Venus.zip) (90 MB)
	3. [DeepDices16K, Amplitude-Phase](https://hologram-repository.labs.b-com.com/store/dices16k/dices16k-AP.zip) (1.43 GB)
	4. [DeepDices2K, Amplitude-Phase](https://hologram-repository.labs.b-com.com/store/deepDices2k/deepDices2k-AP.zip) (23.2 MB)
	5. [DeepDices8K4K, Amplitude-Phase](https://hologram-repository.labs.b-com.com/store/deepDices8k4k/deepDices8k4k-AP.zip) (184 MB)
	6. [Lowiczanka_Doll](http://plenodb.jpeg.org/holo/WUT/WUT_color_digital_on-axis_holograms.tar.gz) (3.31 GB)
2. *IF THE HOLOGRAM IS ONE OF THE DEEP DICES*, the zip files will contain two .bmp files. However, the NRSH only accepts .mat files. In order to convert them, extract the compressed file and run the conversion script as such: ```python src/utils/bcom2mat.py <path_to_hologram_folder>```. The .mat file will be saved on `data/input/holograms/`.
3. Place the holograms in `data/input/holograms/`;
4. On MATLAB IDE, change the current folder to  `src/` ;
5. Run the script `gen_config_files.m` (for more context read the 'Configuration Files' section below);
6. On the `run.m` script, change the following variables:
	1. `hologram_name: string` ─ can be either:
		1. Biplane16k
		2. CGH_Venus
		3. DeepDices16K
		4. DeepDices2K
		5. DeepDices8K4K
		6. Lowiczanka_Doll
	2. `rec_dists: float` ─ reconstruction distance within each hologram range (see table in section 'Hologram Configuration').
	3. `h_pos, v_pos: array` ─ aperture position, values range from -1 to 1.
	4. `channel: int` ─ channel of the phase matrix to be used on the hologram reconstruction.
7. Run `run.m` script.
8. The output will be saved as a PNG file in `data/output/reconstruction`.

### *Configuration Files*
All the information needed to run the NRSH script is generated by the script `res/nrsh/getSettings.m` and stored as the variable **`info`**. This variable is often passed as argument between NRSH functions (which muddles which of the variables in `info` are needed for any given function).

To reconstruct each hologram, this project will create a dedicated .mat file with the
respective `info` variable for each hologram. To run this script, ***it's necessary to run the script*** `src/holo_config/gen_config_files.m` to generate said configuration files, which will be saved in `data/config/single_phase_config`.

### *Command Line*
These scripts can be run from the command line with the following command:
```
matlab -nodesktop -nojvm -nosplash -r "try, run(<path_to_script_name>.m), catch e, disp(e.message); end; quit"
```
Remember to `cd` to the project root directory, otherwise, MATLAB might not be able to add the correct paths to its PATH variable.

## Hologram Configuration

The following table presents the possible reconstruction distance in meters.

| Hologram        | Min Rec Dist (m) | Max rec Dist (m) |
|-----------------|------------------|------------------|
| Biplane16K      | 0.037            | 0.049            |
| CGH_Venus       | 0.2955           | 0.3045           |
| DeepDices16K    | 0.00338          | 0.0459           |
| DeepDices2K     | 0.00507          | 0.246            |
| DeepDices8k4k   | 0.0101           | 0.492            |
| Lowiczanka_Doll | 1.030            | 1.077            |

For further information on the holograms, please consult the [JPEG PLENO spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/17YW4iS6HQEK7-fUA91i0IiwhleaqMjAI7HWX3NwkZyE/edit#gid=0).
